README.md, before:

# ryogoku

Simple rsync deployment shell script

## How it works

This script deploys your git repository files to the indicated hosts by rsync.  

### deployment flow
First, it extracts the indicated revision files to a temporary directory.  
Then rsync them to the hosts.  
Finally the temporary directory is removed.  

Further more, you can set some directives in config file like

* commands or scripts which are executed at pre and post deployment
* rsync option
* file path for rsync's `--exclude-from`
* umask

More detail is described in the rest parts.  
Please read them.

## Requirements

* git

## Installation

```
$ make install
```

## How to use

* You need to be inside the git repository to deploy.
* Set ryogoku.conf file properly.
* Checkout the branch to deploy

then

```
$ ryogoku
```

## Usage

```
  Usage: ryogoku [options] [command]

  Options:

    -V, --version        output program versions
    -h, --help           output help information
    -n, --dry-run        show what would have been transferred
    -P <n>               Set max number of parallel execution
    -E <ENV>             Set config section to use

  Commands:

    revert [n]           revert to [n]th last deployment or 1
    list                 list previous deploy commits
    setup_webhook_ssh    Copy webhook public key to deployment host(s)
    [ref]                deploys indicated [ref]. i.e. bcb07e2, HEAD^^. default: HEAD

```

## Configuration

Locate ryogoku.conf in the git repository root

```
[master]
user deploy
host 128.199.170.128 128.199.244.193
path /var/www/html
forward-agent yes
pre-rsync ./bin/pre-rsync
rsync-option -rlpDvcK
rsync-exclude ./rsync-exclude
post-deploy /var/www/myapp.com/update.sh && /var/www/myapp.com/update.master.sh
umask 022

[develop]
host deploy@128.199.170.128 john@128.199.244.193
path /var/www/html
rsync-option -rlpDvcK
rsync-exclude ./rsync-exclude
post-deploy /var/www/myapp.com/update.sh && /var/www/myapp.com/update.develop.sh

[webhook]
user deploy
host 128.199.132.104
port 10022
```

## Directives

### user (optional), host

ssh user & host of deployment host or webhook.  
There's two way of setting.

1.

```
user deploy
host 128.199.170.128 128.199.244.193
```

In this case, you will deploy to deploy@128.199.170.128, deploy@128.199.244.193 hosts.

2.

```
host deploy@128.199.170.128 john@128.199.244.193
```

In this case, You don't need `user` directive.

### path

Deployment path.

```
path /var/www/html
```

### umask

Sets umask before extracting source files.

### rsync-option

```
rsync-option -rlpDvcK
```

### rsync-exclude

is the argument for rsync's `--exclude-from=`  
This is optional.  
If this directive is not specified, ryogoku searches default path; `REPOSITORY-ROOT/rsync-exclude`

```
rsync-exclude .deploy/rsync-exclude
```

### pre-rsync

You can execute commands or scripts to the extracted files before rsync.  
The commands or scripts are executed at the directory root,  
which is relatively as same as the git repository root.  
You can use `&&` operator for multiple commands or scripts.

```
pre-rsync ./bin/pre-rsync
```

### post-deploy

executes commands or scripts to the deployment hosts after rsync.  
They are executed in indicated `path`.  
You can use `&&` operator for multiple commands or scripts.

```
post-deploy /var/www/myapp.com/update.sh && /var/www/myapp.com/update.master.sh
```

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Yuta Fujishiro

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Set exit status when config section is not defined to 91

README.md, after:

# ryogoku

Simple rsync deployment shell script

## How it works

This script deploys your git repository files to the indicated hosts by rsync.  

### deployment flow
First, it extracts the indicated revision files to a temporary directory.  
Then rsync them to the hosts.  
Finally the temporary directory is removed.  

Further more, you can set some directives in config file like

* commands or scripts which are executed at pre and post deployment
* rsync option
* file path for rsync's `--exclude-from`
* umask

More detail is described in the rest parts.  
Please read them.

## Requirements

* git

## Installation

```
$ make install
```

## How to use

* You need to be inside the git repository to deploy.
* Set ryogoku.conf file properly.
* Checkout the branch to deploy

then

```
$ ryogoku
```

## Usage

```
  Usage: ryogoku [options] [command]

  Options:

    -V, --version        output program versions
    -h, --help           output help information
    -n, --dry-run        show what would have been transferred
    -P <n>               Set max number of parallel execution
    -E <ENV>             Set config section to use

  Commands:

    revert [n]           revert to [n]th last deployment or 1
    list                 list previous deploy commits
    setup_webhook_ssh    Copy webhook public key to deployment host(s)
    [ref]                deploys indicated [ref]. i.e. bcb07e2, HEAD^^. default: HEAD

```

## Configuration

Locate ryogoku.conf in the git repository root

```
[master]
user deploy
host 128.199.170.128 128.199.244.193
path /var/www/html
forward-agent yes
pre-rsync ./bin/pre-rsync
rsync-option -rlpDvcK
rsync-exclude ./rsync-exclude
post-deploy /var/www/myapp.com/update.sh && /var/www/myapp.com/update.master.sh
umask 022

[develop]
host deploy@128.199.170.128 john@128.199.244.193
path /var/www/html
rsync-option -rlpDvcK
rsync-exclude ./rsync-exclude
post-deploy /var/www/myapp.com/update.sh && /var/www/myapp.com/update.develop.sh

[webhook]
user deploy
host 128.199.132.104
port 10022
```

## Directives

### user (optional), host

ssh user & host of deployment host or webhook.  
There's two way of setting.

1.

```
user deploy
host 128.199.170.128 128.199.244.193
```

In this case, you will deploy to deploy@128.199.170.128, deploy@128.199.244.193 hosts.

2.

```
host deploy@128.199.170.128 john@128.199.244.193
```

In this case, You don't need `user` directive.

### path

Deployment path.

```
path /var/www/html
```

### umask

Sets umask before extracting source files.

### rsync-option

```
rsync-option -rlpDvcK
```

### rsync-exclude

is the argument for rsync's `--exclude-from=`  
This is optional.  
If this directive is not specified, ryogoku searches default path; `REPOSITORY-ROOT/rsync-exclude`

```
rsync-exclude .deploy/rsync-exclude
```

### pre-rsync

You can execute commands or scripts to the extracted files before rsync.  
The commands or scripts are executed at the directory root,  
which is relatively as same as the git repository root.  
You can use `&&` operator for multiple commands or scripts.

```
pre-rsync ./bin/pre-rsync
```

### post-deploy

executes commands or scripts to the deployment hosts after rsync.  
They are executed in indicated `path`.  
You can use `&&` operator for multiple commands or scripts.

```
post-deploy /var/www/myapp.com/update.sh && /var/www/myapp.com/update.master.sh
```

## Specific exit status

* `91` ... config section is not defined.

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Yuta Fujishiro

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
